in support of Palestine continue at
University campuses across the United
States despite a Crackdown by police
hundreds of students and teachers have
been arrested over the past week while
Kristen salumi is live for us now at New
York University K Christen I can see
obviously there are protests uh behind
you there just talk to us about what's
been
happening yes indeed last night 133
students and faculty members were
arrested at new New York University in a
Plaza on the school campus itself today
hundreds of them hundreds more have
joined them those who were arrested
students and faculty have returned to
this park outside of the campus just
across the street from the campus uh to
resume their protests they are calling
for the University to close its campus
it has a satellite campus in Tel Aviv
Israel they're calling uh for free
speech to be protected on campus which
they say it wasn't last night and they
are calling for the University to divest
of its Assets in companies that profit
from Israel's war in Gaza so what we are
seeing here today again hundreds if not
thousands of people joining this group
of demonstrators to amplify their voice
many of them showed up here with their
faces covered by mouth I was told that
they were nervous about showing their
faces and being identified because of
all the blowback that they are receiving
for these demonstrations they also
denied that they're being hostile uh and
that they are
anti-semitic they just want to make
their point to the
university here's more of what happened
here last
night police moved in after dark to
arrest demonstrators at New York
University where over 100 students and
teachers defied orders to leave a school
Plaza or face
consequences there were arrests at Yale
University too dozens of them these
students and others across the country
coming out in protest of Israel's
devastating war on Gaza and in
solidarity with Colombia University
students there the so-called Gaza
solidarity encampment has been
re-erected after the school called in
police to arrest more than 100 students
and dismantle it last week we demand
that all Columbia's faculty joined
protesters to condemn the
move initiated by the University
president who canceled in-person classes
Monday to address security concerns the
president's
decision to send Riot police to pick up
peaceful protesters on our campus
was
unprecedented
unjustified
disproportionate
divisive and dangerous they are outraged
not only by the arrest but also by
President namat Manu shafi's testimony
before Congress while conservative
Representatives called for shafi's
resignation for not doing more to crack
down on demonstrators the school Senate
consisting of students faculty and
administrators is expected to vote to
censure her as early as Wednesday it's
very important for faculty to um defend
the university in a way that our
president did not before Congress
student demonstrators including Jewish
student demonstrators deny accusations
of anti-Semitism at Columbia University
they even stopped their protest to
celebrate the first night of passover
they described their movement as
peaceful and blame any antagonistic
inflammatory statements or actions on
Outsiders from California's state
Polytechnic University on the west coast
to the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and Emerson College on the
East the demands for school leaders are
the same we want Emerson College number
one call for an immediate ceasefire in
Gaza number two to disclose all
financial investments in Zionist
organizations number three to divest
best from those organizations number
four to drop all charges against
students for disciplinary
actions attempts to silence the movement
only amplifying its call Kristen salumi
Al jazer New York m is a lecturer at
columia law school he's joining us from
New York thanks very much for being with
us what in your interpretation happened
when these arrests took
place so I and other faculty members
were horrified last week as we watched
uh 108 students get arrested on the
south lawn of columia university for
standing in solidarity with the people
of Raza and asking Columbia to devest
from the Israeli War there um it was
appalling to many of us that the
Columbia president went straight to
calling NYPD New York Police Department
into campus Without Really Trying to do
anything to deescalate first this is a
really outrageous step that the
president went to um these are students
who pay tuition to be here they're in
our care and we should uh be protecting
them and creating a space for free
speech and freedom of expression not
calling police Riot police to remove
them from campus I'm reading here that
the NYPD commissioner Edward caran said
that the students quote that were
arrested were peaceful offered no
resistance whatsoever and were saying
what they wanted to say what was the
reaction are you aware of what they the
reaction was when the police arrived and
what the interaction between the police
and the students
was yes so I was at the protest about 30
minutes ago uh the camp is back up um
it's peaceful there's students there uh
talking studying it's the same as it was
last week there was really no
justification for calling in Riot police
to remove protesters who are sitting
peacefully on a lawn not holding
buildings not disrupting classes not
preventing people from going to class um
really just holding space and calling on
the university to divest um so the fact
that you know in response to that the
school went straight to calling at the
police is pretty outrageous and it's why
more than 100 faculty members from
Columbia walked out of class yesterday
uh to protest this reaction it's why the
president of the university is currently
facing a censor vote um and it's all
also why the New York civil liberties
Union our own Human Rights Institute
here at Columbia have all condemned uh
the fact that the president went
straight to the police here we should
also note that it's not just the police
the University's also suspended these
students without any kind of due process
um many of the students have been
evicted from their dormitories
dormitories that they pay for some given
just 15 minutes to gather their
belongings and so overall it's been
Draconian punitive response to these
protests um in a situation that really
doesn't Merit it there's no
justification for this when students are
really just sitting on a lawn doing
their homework correct me if I'm wrong
but I I understand that the encampment
had been timed because there was a
congressional testimony that was being
given by the Columbia president Manu
safik that was taking place the same day
the um on the University's response uh
she was going to be talking about the
University's response to anti-Semitism
now those Congressional hearings as
we've heard in the past or seen in the
past can we very tense they can be very
um um they can the certainly the
educationalist can be held to account
account significantly do you think that
that has in some way influenced the
decision by the The Faculty to bring in
the
police so to to be clear there it was
not the faculty that brought in the
police it was the University president
The Faculty did not support this move
student Senate Columbia Senate did not
support this movement so it was
unilateral decision made by the
president again the wishes of many
faculty to bring in the police here um
it is true that the camp came up on the
day that the president was testifying in
Congress um I should note that this
follows months and months of actions
from students um to push the college the
university on this issue so it's not
something that is spread started last
week this is student organizing that's
have been happening for many months now
and has now culminated in an encampment
that the students are holding um I think
students were disappointed that the
president in her remarks to Congress uh
did not push back against accusations of
anti ISM from students did not really
try to uh you know create a distinction
between hate speech and promotion of
Human Rights and so there's a lot of
anger I think right now on campus for
the actions of the let me interrupt you
very quickly forgive me for interrupting
you but I mean thanks for the
clarification that this was a unilateral
decision made by the president it used
to be that universities and schools and
colleges were supposed to be hot beds of
protest that was part of the educational
process it was part of a student life
How concerned are you do you think given
what you've uh gone through and what the
students are going through that this
will have an impact on uh the the
confidence that students might have to
hold protests like
this I think it's very dangerous uh
infringment on what is really a proud
culture of protest and proud history of
protests here at Columbia and in many
universities around the country and as
we seen now it's not just Colombia but
there's protest and capist popping up in
universities around the country um it's
anytime police are brought into
Crackdown on students like this it of
course chills free speech uh to the
students credit they don't seem to be
backing down and and are back out on the
lawn really within the same day that the
the original CET was shut down B we
appreciate your time sir thank you very
much
indeed make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer